Our paper “Enabling In-situ Programmability in Network Data Plane: From Architecture to Language” was accepted 
and will be published in USENIX NSDI 2022, a flagship networking conference, in April. In this paper we proposed 
a new programmable chip architecture which allows non-disruptive in-service data plane reprogramming. It realizes 
the vision of POF we set out in our earlier paper "Protocol-Oblivious Forwarding: Unleash the Power of SDN 
through a Future-Proof Forwarding Plane" (ACM HotSDN 2013) in ASICs. In addition to the runtime programmability, 
the new architecture also has the properties to support stateful data plane functions. We are exploring such 
possibilities in the follow-up research. We wish this effort would trigger the design of a new breed of 
programmable networking chips. Below is the abstract of the paper. The full paper can be downloaded from the 
NSDI’22 conference website for free. 

In-situ programmability refers to the capability for network devices to update data plane functions and protocol 
processing logic at runtime without interrupting the services, driven by dynamic and interactive network 
operations towards autonomous networks. The existing programmable switch architecture (e.g., PISA) and 
programming language (e.g., P4) were designed for monolithic and static implementation, which re-quires a 
complete programming and deployment cycle for functional update, incurring long delay and service interruption. 
Addressing the fundamental reasons for such inflexibility, we design a new In-situ Programmable Switch 
Architecture (IPSA) and the corresponding design flow using rP4, aP4 language extension, as a fix. The compiler 
contains algorithms to support efficient resource mapping for both base design and incremental updates. To
manifest the in-situ programming feasibility, we demonstrate several practical use-cases on both a software 
switch, ipbm, and an FPGA-based prototype. Our experiments and analysis show that IPSA in-curs moderate hardware 
cost which can be justified by its benefits and compensated by newer chip technologies. The in-situ programmability 
enabled by IPSA and rP4 advances the state of the art of programmable networks and opens a promising new design 
space.
